---
layout: post
title: Why I Recommend to Avoid Using the `go-kit` Library
---

There is a trending 'microservice' library called [go-kit](http://gokit.io).
I've been using the go-kit library for a while now. The library provide
a lot of convenience integrations that you might need in your service: with
service discovery with Consul, distributed tracing with Zipkin, for example,
and nice logic utilities such as round robin client side load balancing,
and circuit breaking. It is also providing a way to implement communication
layer, with support of RPC and REST.

The toolchain that the library provide is very nice, and it does try to solve
a fundamental problem we have in the Go community: missing ecosystem to write
microservices. I do like the approach of the package: 'take what you want',
you can write your service and use certain tools given in this library, and not
use all of it.
But, I recommend *not* to use the library server implementation for your *REST*
microservices. (I think this recommendation will also apply for the RPC part
of the library, but I don't have any experience with that).

You could read why, and I would love to hear your opinion about it,
if you agree, disagree, and why.

### 1. Too verbose

  Usually microservices expose APIs: external, which are exposed, and
  internal for inter-service communication.

  When using the go-kit, it was very noticeable that the overhead of
  adding API you your service is very high. You need to add a lot of
  code, which is mostly copy-paste of other APIs and there are too many
  places to make mistakes.

  To add a single simple API, you should add:

  a. Function in the interface (make sense)
  b. Implementation (make sense)
  c. Endpoint factory function
  d. Transport function
  e. Request encoder, request decoder, response encoder and response decoder.
  f. Add the endpoint to the server
  g. Add the endpoint to the client.

  For a quick impression of what I mean by "a lot of code" take a look at the
  simple example in the [go-kit website](http://gokit.io/examples/stringsvc.html)

### 2. Hard to understand (at least, for me)

  I think the main reason for this verbosity is the layer separation for the
  business logic, endpoint and transport, which is nice, and benefits in nice
  abstractions for the client-side load balancing, circuit breaking, tracing,
  etc.

  But, it is hard to understand.

  If you are using the go-kit as REST service library, I recommend to know the following
  [ServerHTTP function](https://github.com/go-kit/kit/blob/master/transport/http/server.go#L88)
  by heart: Only then you truly understand how your service is expected to behave.

### 3. The `interface{}` API

  When using the go-kit, your endpoints get an `interface{}` object and return an
  `interface{}, error` tuple. You need to explicitly write the conversion to your
  implementation function.
  Actually, your endpoint factory will almost be a copy-paste of the following function:

  ```go
  func makeUppercaseEndpoint(svc StringService) endpoint.Endpoint {
    return func(ctx context.Context, request interface{}) (interface{}, error) {
      req := request.(myRequest)
      v, err := svc.Function(req.A, req.B)
      if err != nil {
        return myResponse{v, err.Error()}, nil
      }
      return myResponse{v, ""}, nil
    }
  }
  ```

## To summarize

This library is really nice, and with really good intentions. It looks very
popular, but can't really understand how much production ready it is, and how many actual use
cases there are out there. I personally don't
like the basic concepts of it, specially because of the `interface{}` and the verbosity issues
discussed above, and I find them not easy to use, and not intuitive.

You couldn't use the nice features of the library of load-balancing, circuit breaking, and tracing, if you
are not using the endpoint APIs, but if you look at the code, it is not that big. You could use the actual
code or find other libraries that provide them as middleware for the standard http client/server.


### Thanks for reading,

If you find this interesting, please, ✎ comment below or ★ star above ☺

For more stuff: [gist.github.com/posener](https://gist.github.com/posener).

Cheers,
Eyal